# *Evidence for hierarchical representations of written and spoken words from an open-science human neuroimaging dataset*

Code, results, and manuscript drafts for Banerjee et al

**Tables and text files**

`dutch_celex_database_updatedv2.csv` Contains phonetic pronunciations of Dutch words in the CELEX database. For more information, see [Sun &amp; Poeppel 2023](https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.2215710120?utm_source=TOC&utm_medium=ealert&TOC_v120_i36=&ref=d8253441).

`SUBTLEX-NL with pos and Zipf.xlsx` Contains word frequency measures of Dutch words in the SUBTLEX database, the most up-to-date version of the CELEX database. `Zipf` contains log-transformed values of `FREQCOUNT`, the number of word occurrences in the corpus. For more information, visit [OSF](https://osf.io/3d8cx/).

`MOUS_audio_onset_offsets.xlsx` Onset times of words in each audio file play in the speech listening part of the experiment.

`subtlex_phonetics.xlsx` The intersection of the CELEX database and SUBTLEX databases, contains phonetics and occurrence counts of most words in Dutch.

`MOUS_word_syllable_frequencies` contains the occurrence counts of each syllable in every word presented in the MOUS experiment.

`stimuli.txt` The sentences and word lists used in both the reading and speech listening experiments of the MOUS study.

`bigram_counts.csv` Cumulative bigram occurrences (per million) in the SUBTLEX text corpus.

`syllable_counts.csv` Cumulative syllable occurrences (per million) in the SUBTLEX text corpus.

**Code**

`master_table.ipynb `Generates bigram, syllable, and word frequency statistics for every word presented in the MOUS experiments.

*Auditory*

`source_auditory_trancription.m` Takes in an auditory subject's `events.tsv` file and an output filename and tabulates the onset times and words played during that subject's scan. Generates transcription files that are saved in each subject's source subdirectory, e.g. `sub-A2002_transcription.csv`.

`calculate_syllable_frequencies.m` Takes in a 'transcription' generated by the above script and returns the syllable frequencies. Creates two .csv files, e.g., `sub-A2002_transcription_syllables_raw.csv`, which contains all onset times (including words for which syllable segmentations couldn't be sourced) and `sub-A2002_transcription_syllables_processed`, which only preserves the onset times and frequencies for words with available syllable segmentations.

`source_auditory_transcription_loop.m` Runs the above over all auditory subjects. 

`SPM_auditory_word_frequency_1st_level.m` Runs SPM12 first-level analysis for Word Frequency across all auditory subjects. For a primer on this technique, see [Andy's Brain Book](https://andysbrainbook.readthedocs.io/en/latest/PM/PM_Overview.html)

`SPM_auditory_word_frequency_2nd_level.m`  Runs SPM12 group-level analysis for word frequency. 

`SPM_auditory_syllable_frequency_1st_level.m` Runs SPM12 first-level analysis for Syllable Frequency across all auditory subjects. 

`SPM_auditory_syllable_frequency_2nd_lvel.m` Runs group-level analysis for syllable frequency.

*Visual*

`source_visual_transcription.m` converts an events.tsv file to a cleaned CSV containing onset time and word presented. 

`source_visual_transcription_loop.ipynb` Runs the above function in a loop over all visual subjects. 

`calculate_word_frequencies_visual.ipynb` generates CSV files containing both word frequency and minimum bigram frequency info for all words in the study. 

`SPM_visual_word_frequency_1st_level.m` Runs SPM12 first-level analysis for Word Frequency across all visual subjects.

`SPM_visual_word_frequency_2nd_level.m` Runs SPM12 group-level analysis for Word Frequency.

`SPM_visual_bigram_frequency_1st_level.m` Runs SPM12 first-level analysis for Bigam Frequency across all visual subjects.

`SPM_visual_bigram_frequency_2nd_level.m` Runs SPM12 group-level analysis for bigram frequency.

